# [PorousGen] GitHub Repository
“PorousGen” allows for the efficient generation of large-scale porous structures through parallel computation. It can also accurately create structures according to a defined target porosity.

The repository contains the implementation of the **core algorithm**, together with **reproducibility scripts** for all results in Section 3 and Supporting Information SI-1. Each script is organized by section and produces the corresponding figures, tables, and output data.

## Requirements
Python **3.12.3** or later
- numpy  
- scipy  
- scikit-image   
- matplotlib
- pandas
- psutil
- porespy (optional, used only in Section 3)

Install dependencies:

```bash
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

## Folder Structure

- `LICENSE` : MIT License
- `requirements.txt`
- `demo/` : To run PorousGen, please execute the code in this directory.
  - `run_codes.sh` :  Master script to execute the codes listed below
    - `code_PorousGen.py` : PorousGen algorithm
    - `helpers.py` : Helper functions and utilities
  - `final_mask.npy`  : Binary mask representing the generated 3D porous structure (output)
  - `results/`  : figures of the three-dimensional porous structure (output)
- `repro/each_section/` : Analysis scripts corresponding to each section of the manuscript
  - `run_codes.sh` :  Master script to execute the codes listed below
    - `code_PorousGen.py` : PorousGen algorithm
    - `code_PoreSpy.py` : PoreSpy-based generation and comparison
    - `helpers.py` : Helper functions and utilities
  - `results/`  : Outputs generated by each analysis script (figures, tables, and output data)

### Section-to-Folder Mapping

| Section | code_folder | results | 
|---------|-------------|-------------|
| 3.1.1 Dependence on parameter l | `repro/section3_1_1/` | Figure 2 | 
| 3.1.2 Dependence on parameter dL | `repro/section3_1_2/` | Figure 3 | 
| 3.1.3 Dependence on parameter ϕ_Particle | `repro/section3_1_3/` | Figure 4 | 
| 3.2 Comparison with PoreSpy | `repro/section3_2/` | Figure 5 | 
| 3.3 Comparison with experimental data | `repro/section3_3/` | Table 2 | 
| SI-1 Effect of binning on the power spectrum | `repro/SI_1/` | Figure S1 | 

---


## Usage
### Using core algorithm    

The following parameters are used for test execution:

```text
#!/bin/bash
# --- Parameter Settings ---
eta_Box=40        # \eta_Box [%]
L_Voxel=10        # L_Voxel [nm]
N_Voxel=200       # N_Voxel
mean=140          # D_Mean [nm]
stan=1            # D_SD [nm]
N=5               # The box is divided into N^3 subdomains for parallel computation.
delta_VN=50       # l = L_Voxel * delta_VN [nm]
dL2=$(( mean + 2*stan )) # 2dL [nm]
phi_particle=50   # \phi_Particle [%]
eta_err=1         # \eta_Err [%]
ran=1             # seed
```
To run the algorithm:
```bash
cd demo/
bash run_codes.sh
```

A 3D porous structure with 100^3 voxels of size 20 nm is generated.
PNG image files of the generated structure will be saved automatically in the result directory.


### Using analysis scripts corresponding to each section of the manuscript

Reproduce Figure 2
```bash
cd repro/section3_1_1/
bash run_codes.sh
```
Reproduce all results
```bash
cd repro/
bash run_codes_all.sh
```
All generated outputs will be stored automatically in the results directory.




# Licence
“PorousGen” is available under the MIT License.

# Citing this work
If you use "PorousGen", please cite:
```
PorousGen: An efficient algorithm for generating porous structures with accurate porosity and uniform density distribution
Shota Arai and Takashi Yoshidome
arXiv: 2510.17133 (2025). http://arxiv.org/abs/2510.17133
```
# Contact
If you have any questions, please contact Shota Arai at<br>
shota.arai.c2@tohoku.ac.jp






